# MODEL1006230120: Siebert2008_MuscleContraction_CCSEC

## Installation

Download this repository, and install with distutils

`python setup.py install`

Or, install using pip

`pip install git+https://github.com/biomodels/MODEL1006230120.git`

To install a specific version (in this example, from the 2014-09-16 BioModels release)

`pip install git+https://github.com/biomodels/MODEL1006230120.git@20140916`

## Usage

Importing the model package.

`import MODEL1006230120 as model`

Get the SBML string from the model

`print model.sbmlString`

If [python-libsbml](https://pypi.python.org/pypi/python-libsbml) bindings are
installed, the libsbml.SBMLDocument object is also accessible

`model.sbml`


# Model Notes


This a model from the article:  
**Nonlinearities make a difference: comparison of two common Hill-type models with real muscle.**   
Siebert T, Rode C, Herzog W, Till O, Blickhan R. _Biol Cybern_ 2008
Feb;98(2):133-43 [18049823](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/18049823) ,  
**Abstract:**   
Compared to complex structural Huxley-type models, Hill-type models
phenomenologically describe muscle contraction using only few state variables.
The Hill-type models dominate in the ever expanding field of musculoskeletal
simulations for simplicity and low computational cost. Reasonable parameters
are required to gain insight into mechanics of movement. The two most common
Hill-type muscle models used contain three components. The series elastic
component is connected in series to the contractile component. A parallel
elastic component is either connected in parallel to both the contractile and
the series elastic component (model [CC+SEC]), or is connected in parallel
only with the contractile component (model [CC]). As soon as at least one of
the components exhibits substantial nonlinearities, as, e.g., the contractile
component by the ability to turn on and off, the two models are mechanically
different. We tested which model ([CC+SEC] or [CC]) represents the cat soleus
better. Ramp experiments consisting of an isometric and an isokinetic part
were performed with an in situ cat soleus preparation using supramaximal nerve
stimulation. Hill-type models containing force-length and force-velocity
relationship, excitation-contraction coupling and series and parallel elastic
force-elongation relations were fitted to the data. To test which model might
represent the muscle better, the obtained parameters were compared with
experimentally determined parameters. Determined in situations with negligible
passive force, the force-velocity relation and the series elastic component
relation are independent of the chosen model. In contrast to model [CC+SEC],
these relations predicted by model [CC] were in accordance with experimental
relations. In conclusion model [CC] seemed to better represent the cat soleus
contraction dynamics and should be preferred in the nonlinear regression of
muscle parameters and in musculoskeletal modeling.

This model was taken from the [CellML
repository](http://www.cellml.org/models) and automatically converted to SBML.  
The original model was: [ **Siebert T, Rode C, Herzog W, Till O, Blickhan R.
(2008) - version=1.0**
](http://models.cellml.org/exposure/659660ba4bcde7aceae67cbf4999b18e)  
The original CellML model was created by:  
**Paul Harrington**   
paul.harrington@auckland.ac.nz  
The University of Auckland  

This model originates from BioModels Database: A Database of Annotated
Published Models (http://www.ebi.ac.uk/biomodels/). It is copyright (c)
2005-2011 The BioModels.net Team.  
To the extent possible under law, all copyright and related or neighbouring
rights to this encoded model have been dedicated to the public domain
worldwide. Please refer to [CC0 Public Domain
Dedication](http://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/) for more
information.

In summary, you are entitled to use this encoded model in absolutely any
manner you deem suitable, verbatim, or with modification, alone or embedded it
in a larger context, redistribute it, commercially or not, in a restricted way
or not..  
  
To cite BioModels Database, please use: [Li C, Donizelli M, Rodriguez N,
Dharuri H, Endler L, Chelliah V, Li L, He E, Henry A, Stefan MI, Snoep JL,
Hucka M, Le Nov√®re N, Laibe C (2010) BioModels Database: An enhanced, curated
and annotated resource for published quantitative kinetic models. BMC Syst
Biol., 4:92.](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20587024)


